---
layout: post
title:  "A New Church Assignment"
date:   2016-02-14 14:45
categories: church, memories, scouts
---
Today I was released from serving as the second counselor in the bishopric of our ward. My thoughts have been all over the place. It's customary for the presiding authority to ask for the person being released and the person being called to share their testimonies.

When I was called to serve as a counselor (and my wife was asked to support me), the guideline was that it would be a five year calling. This was a bit hard to take because we had already been thinking about moving. Home values were high, and interest rates were low. But then we heard who the new bishop was going to be. I remember saying to Amanda as we walked out of the church, 'I could stay five years for Ronnie.'

I have been taught that, within reason, we should always accept the callings that come to us from those we sustain as the Lord's servants. But you know, since June 2014 interest rates and home prices have only gotten better. But so what? I accepted the call to serve and any changes to that plan needed to come from Him. There have been several times were I've just wanted to run away--change my job, move, all of it. To be clear, nothing bad ever happeneded that made me feel that was necessary. It was just self-generated stress. I have a really great job. We have a comfortable home, and we're not house poor. Sure, the lawn isn't as green as it could be, the deck needs replaced, the fence needs repairs, and the bathrooms should be remodeled. But that's life, and every other home comes with the same issues.

The community where we live has it's struggles. In recent years, gang graffitti has been a consistent problem. I live towards the newer end of the community, and my neighbors do their best to keep it classy. But there's been a lot of hard times and it shows in some parts. The high school is known for being a little rough. We don't have any kids in high school or junior high here, but our friends do. Last year there was somewhat of an exodus from our neighborhood due to the great conditions in the home market. We lost several great families in our ward, and other wards in the stake had the same experience. It was hard to take. But the ones that are still here -- they make it work.

Before I served as a counselor in the bishopric, I was the eleven year old scout leader. My assignment in the bishopric had me overseeing the scout program, and I also volunteered to be the webmaster for our scout district. In short, I've done a lot of scouts in the last three years. I learned a ton, and my eyes were opened to remember some of the great things that others have done for me. Let me explain.

This last Tuesday I taught a merit badge instructor course. The course material was provided by the BSA. Among other things, it was very clear that merit badge counselors should not bend the time requirements so a merit badge could be finished at summer camp. I finished my Eagle Scout requirements on my 18th birthday. I just barely made it. I was a Life scout at age 14, like so many boys and men I have known. I still had 5 or 6 merit badges to complete as well as my Eagle service project. There was definitely time for me to have finished all of that before I reached the freedom/job stage at 16. But it didn't happen. Then 16 happened. My mom and I bought a car together so her and I could both deliver newspapers in the early mornings. She needed help getting errands done, and I wanted some freedom. I had already been delivering newspapers for several years for her on my bike, and I had my own twice a week route as well. I was a pretty responsible young man. My dad had stopped driving when I was eight, and there were six of kids to take care of and drive around, so mom was grateful to have some help.

But a car is a powerful thing. That summer was also when my dad and I got in a fistfight after I jumped into an argument he and mom were having. And that same summer mom and I moved him into his own apartment. And I crashed that new car twice, got four moving violations, and got it totaled. Then we bought a minivan, and in the fall I managed to get that one in an accident too. I had gotten a job at Fuddruckers and lost it once that accident happened.

Then I was left with just a bicycle, but I was a strong rider and had no problem riding 20 or 30 miles one way to go see friends. Once I had that taste of freedom, it was hard to take it away. I was sneaking out of the house at night, I felt wanted rather than needed, and that was intoxicating.

This was the state of things when my senior year in high school started. My school had just implemented a really tough attendance policy. Due to my late-night choices, I was too tired to be on time to school. I was dropped from my first four classes of the school day for non-attedance. My mom was going to college and my dad wasn't home, so I was responsible to get myself to school. I had gone from being completely responsible and helpful to very near to droppping out of school.

My last three periods of the school day were physics, calculus, and radio management. I think. I know radio management was the last hour, and it was the only class I really cared about. Things got really bad. But, I had a great guidance counselor, a caring mother, and a creative assistant principal. And I had already completed all of the state required education courses to graduate, except for English. I needed one more semester of English.

So these three made a plan that if I attended an inpatient mental health clinic for youth over the Christmas break, and I went to a different school for the last semester, that I could finish that semester even though I wasn't in compliance and had awful grades. Then my mother contacted my dad's parents in Idaho, and asked them if I could come live with them. Or maybe they called her, I'm not sure. Either way, after I finished treatment I was on a plane to Salt Lake.

My grandparents picked me up and took me back to their home. The next day we went to the barber and got me a haircut. Then I went to school. Imet the student body president the first day, and he introduced me to his group of friends. They were a wonderful influence on me.
